pyrocopy
========

pyrocopy is a suite of advanced file utility functions for efficiently
copying all or part of a directory tree. It can be used as a module in
your own application or run standalone.

Main Features
-------------

-  Mirror Mode
-  Sync Mode (bi-directional copy)
-  Regular expression based filename and directory matching
-  Configurable maximum tree depth traversal
-  Detailed operation statistics

Contents
--------

-  `Installation <#installation>`__
-  `Using pyrocopy command line
   tool <#using-pyrocopy-command-line-tool>`__

   -  `Modes <#modes>`__
   -  `File Selection <#file-selection>`__
   -  `Depth Selection <#depth-selection>`__
   -  `Examples <#examples>`__
   -  `Reference <#reference>`__

-  `Using pyrocopy as a module <#using-pyrocopy-as-a-module>`__

   -  `File Selection <#file-selection-1>`__
   -  `Depth Selection <#depth-selection-1>`__
   -  `Function Results <#function-results>`__
   -  `Examples <#examples-1>`__
   -  `Reference <#reference-1>`__

Installation
------------

pyrocopy can be easily installed with **pip** using the following
command:

::

    pip install pyrocopy

Using pyrocopy command line tool
--------------------------------

::

    pyrocopy [-h] [--mirror | --move | --sync] [-f] [--nostat]
             [-if INCLUDEFILES] [-id INCLUDEDIRS] [-xf EXCLUDEFILES]
             [-xd EXCLUDEDIRS] [-l LEVEL] [-fl] [-q | -v] [--version]
             source destination

In addition to being used as a Python module, pyrocopy can be used as a
standalone command line tool. The command line tool offers the same four
copy modes as the module (**copy**, **mirror**, **move** and **sync**)
with the default mode being **copy**.

The command line tool also provides detailed information about the
running operation, including real-time progress bars. The output of the
tool is configurable if you need more or less information using the *-v*
and *-q* options respectively.

Modes
~~~~~

By default pyrocopy runs in **copy** mode. This mode will copy the
selected contents of the specified *source* directory to a
*destination*. Files that already exist in the *destination* with the
same relative path and name will be skipped unless the *source* version
is newer (this can be overridden with the *--force* option).

Mirror
^^^^^^

When using the *--mirror* flag, pyrocopy will run in **mirror** mode.
This mode copies the selected contents of the specified *source*
directory into *destination* and then removes any file or subdirectory
of *destination* that cannot also be found in the *source*.

Move
^^^^

Using the *--move* flag enables **move** mode. This mode will copy all
of the selected contents from *source* to the specified *destination*
and if successful remove the file or directory from *source*. Note that
if there exists an existing file in *destination* that is newer than the
version in *source* the file will be skipped and thus not removed from
*source*. This behavior can be overridden using the *--force* flag.

Sync
^^^^

With the *--sync* flag pyrocoy will run in **sync** mode. Sync mode
performs a bi-directional copy of selected contents from *source* to
*destination* such that both directories will contain all of the same
files at the end of the operation. This is equivalent to running
pyrocopy twice in copy mode with the second run having swapped *source*
and *destination*.

File Selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tool can be instructed to limit the selection of files and
directories to be copied by specifying a list of regular expressions.
There are two types of file selection lists that can be specified;
*inclusion* and *exclusion*.

The *--includefiles* (*-if*) option allows you to specify a regex
pattern that will only copy files whose name matches the pattern. More
than one pattern can be provided by adding an additional
*--includefiles* option to the command line.

::

    > pyrocopy --includefiles "pattern1" --includefiles "pattern2" /my/source/path /my/dest/path

The *--includedirs* (*-id*) option allows you to specify a regex pattern
that will only copy directories whose name matches the pattern. Again,
more than one pattern can be provided by adding an additional
*--includedirs* option. This option can be used in addition to
*--includefiles*.

::

    > pyrocopy --includedirs "dirToInclude" /my/source/path /my/dest/path

The *--excludefiles* (*-xf*) option specifies a regex pattern that will
skip any file whose name matches the pattern. This option is mutually
exclusive to *--includefiles* and will have no effect if specified in
addition to that option.

::

    > pyrocopy --excludefiles "toExclude" /my/source/path /my/dest/path

The *--excludedirs* (*-xd*) option specifies a regex pattern that will
skip any file whose name matches the pattern. This option is mutually
exclusive to *--excludedirs* and will have no effect if specified in
addition to that option.

Depth Selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to filename and directory matching it is possible to define
the maximum depth of the source tree that will be traversed. This
provides the ability to perform shallow copies or deep copies of an
arbitrary length. Furthermore, the tree can be traversed in reverse
making it possible to only copy the files and directories contained in
the furthest nodes of the tree.

This is accomplished with the *--level* option and specifying an integer
value that counts the depth level away from the source root (or furthest
node if using inverse depth). Specifying a value of **0** will traverse
the entire source tree and is the default option. A positive value will
copy the maximum depth reached from the top of the source tree with
level 1 being the root of the source path provided. A negative value
will copy in reverse, starting at the furthest node in the source tree
and counting up towards the root. Therefore a value of -1 will copy only
those files at the furthest subdirectory of the source path.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Simple Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^

The following will copy one directory tree to another, skipping any
existing files with the same path/name that are newer in the destination
than the source.

::

    > pyrocopy /my/src/path /my/dest/path

Copy with Inclusions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following copies any filename in the source tree that has a name
starting with 'myFile' followed by a number. To match the desired form
the regular expression 'myFile[0-9]+\\..\*' is used. Note that '\\..\*'
is required to properly match file extensions.

::

    > pyrocopy --if "myFile[0-9]+\..*" /my/src/path /my/dest/path

Mirror with Exclusions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following mirrors the source tree to the destination but excludes
any directory with the name '.ignore'.

::

    > pyrocopy --mirror --xd "\.ignore" /my/src/path /my/dest/path

Shallow Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adding the 'level' argument with a value of 1 will copy only those files
in the immediate source directory, skipping all subdirectories.

::

    > pyrocopy --level 1 /my/src/path /my/dest/path

Inverse Shallow Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The inverted shallow copy duplicates the files at the furthest node of
the source tree into the destination, creating all necessary
subdirectories along the way.

To illustrate this behavior take the following source tree.

::

    /PathA
        FileA1.txt
        /SubPathA1
            FileSubPathA1.txt
            /SubPathA2
                FileSubPathA2.txt

Using the following code will copy only FileSubPathA2.txt to the
destination by adding the 'level' argument with a value of -1.

::

    > pyrocopy --level -1 /PathA /PathB

The resulting destination tree looks like the following.

::

    /PathB
        /SubPathA1
            /SubPathA2
                FileSubPathA2.txt

More Inverse Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Expanding on the previous example if we change the specified level from
-1 to -2 we get a resulting file tree that copies both FileSubPathA2.txt
and FileSubPathA1.txt. The code for this is as follows.

::

    > pyrocopy --level -2 /PathA /PathB

With the destination tree looking like the following.

::

    /PathB
        /SubPathA1
            FileSubPathA1.txt
            /SubPathA2
                FileSubPathA2.txt

Reference
~~~~~~~~~

::

    usage: pyrocopy [-h] [--mirror | --move | --sync] [-f] [--nostat]
                    [-if INCLUDEFILES] [-id INCLUDEDIRS] [-xf EXCLUDEFILES]
                    [-xd EXCLUDEDIRS] [-l LEVEL] [-fl] [-q | -v] [--version]
                    source destination

    A robust file copying utility.

    positional arguments:
      source                The path to copy contents from
      destination           The path to copy contents to

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --version             show program's version number and exit

    copy mode:
      --mirror              Creates an exact copy of source to the destination
                            removing any files or directories in destination not
                            also contained in source.
      --move                Moves all files and directories from source to
                            destination (delete from source after copying).
      --sync                Performs a bi-directional copy of the contents of
                            source and destination to contain the exact same set
                            of files and directories in both locations.

    copy options:
      -f, --force           Overwrites all files in destination from source even
                            if newer.
      --nostat              Do not copy file stats (mode bits, atime, mtime,
                            flags)

    selection options:
      -if INCLUDEFILES, --includefiles INCLUDEFILES
                            A list of regular expressions for file inclusions
      -id INCLUDEDIRS, --includedirs INCLUDEDIRS
                            A list of regular expressions for directory inclusions
      -xf EXCLUDEFILES, --excludefiles EXCLUDEFILES
                            A list of regular expressions for file exclusions
      -xd EXCLUDEDIRS, --excludedirs EXCLUDEDIRS
                            A list of regular expressions for directory exclusions
      -l LEVEL, --level LEVEL
                            The maximum depth level to traverse during the copy,
                            starting from the source root. A negative value starts
                            from the furthest node from the source root.
      -fl, --followlinks    Traverses symbolic links as directories instead of
                            copying the link.

    logging options:
      -q, --quiet           Shows less output during the operation.
      -v, --verbose         Shows more output during the operation.

Using pyrocopy as a module
--------------------------

Overview
~~~~~~~~

There are four primary functions to pyrocopy; **copy**, **mirror**,
**move** and **sync**. Each function takes the same set of arguments and
will return a dictionary containing statistics about the operation.

File Selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first key principle of pyrocopy is to provide a robust set of file
selection features so that users can operate only on the files and
directories they need. Each function offers the ability to specify
separate lists of files or directories to include or exclude. Regular
expressions are used to match file names and directories instead of
wildcard based matching (e.g. '\*.txt').

Depth Selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to filename and directory matching it is possible to define
the maximum depth of the source tree that will be traversed. This
provides the ability to perform shallow copies or deep copies of an
arbitrary length. Furthermore, the tree can be traversed in reverse
making it possible to only copy the files and directories contained in
the furthest nodes of the tree.

Function Results
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The four primary functions of pyrocopy (copy, mirror, move and sync) all
return a dictionary containing statistics about the operation executed.
Additionally, when the detailedResults argument is set to True an
additional set of information is included in the results to aid in your
application use.

The list of statistics are:

Statistics [copy, mirror, sync] \* filesCopied \* filesFailed \*
filesSkipped \* dirsCopied \* dirsFailed \* dirsSkipped \*
filesCopiedList [requires detailedResults] \* filesFailedList [requires
detailedResults] \* filesSkippedList [requires detailedResults] \*
dirsCopiedList [requires detailedResults] \* dirsFailedList [requires
detailedResults] \* dirsSkippedList [requires detailedResults]

Statistics `move <#move>`__ \* filesMoved \* filesFailed \* filesSkipped
\* dirsMoved \* dirsFailed \* dirsSkipped \* filesMovedList [requires
detailedResults] \* filesFailedList [requires detailedResults] \*
filesSkippedList [requires detailedResults] \* dirsMovedList [requires
detailedResults] \* dirsFailedList [requires detailedResults] \*
dirsSkippedList [requires detailedResults]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Simple Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^

The following will copy one directory tree to another, skipping any
existing files with the same path/name that are newer in the destination
than the source.

.. code:: python

    from pyrocopy import pyrocopy

    results = pyrocopy.copy(source, destination)

Copy with Inclusions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following copies any filename in the source tree that has a name
starting with 'myFile' followed by a number. To match the desired form
the regular expression 'myFile[0-9]+\\..\*' is used. Note that '\\..\*'
is required to properly match file extensions.

.. code:: python

    from pyrocopy import pyrocopy

    results = pyrocopy.copy(source, destination, includeFiles=['myFile[0-9]+\..*'])

Mirror with Exclusions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following mirrors the source tree to the destination but excludes
any directory with the name '.ignore'.

.. code:: python

    from pyrocopy import pyrocopy

    results = pyrocopy.mirror(source, destination, excludeDirs=['\.ignore'])

Shallow Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adding the 'level' argument with a value of 1 will copy only those files
in the immediate source directory, skipping all subdirectories.

.. code:: python

    from pyrocopy import pyrocopy

    results = pyrocopy.copy(source, destination, level=1)

Inverse Shallow Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The inverted shallow copy duplicates the files at the furthest node of
the source tree into the destination, creating all necessary
subdirectories along the way.

To illustrate this behavior take the following source tree.

::

    /PathA
        FileA1.txt
        /SubPathA1
            FileSubPathA1.txt
            /SubPathA2
                FileSubPathA2.txt

Using the following code will copy only FileSubPathA2.txt to the
destination by adding the 'level' argument with a value of -1.

.. code:: python

    from pyrocopy import pyrocopy

    results = pyrocopy.copy("/pathA", destination, level=-1)

The resulting destination tree looks like the following.

::

    /PathB
        /SubPathA1
            /SubPathA2
                FileSubPathA2.txt

More Inverse Copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Expanding on the previous example if we change the specified level from
-1 to -2 we get a resulting file tree that copies both FileSubPathA2.txt
and FileSubPathA1.txt. The code for this is as follows.

.. code:: python

    from pyrocopy import pyrocopy

    results = pyrocopy.copy("/pathA", destination, level=-2)

With the destination tree looking like the following.

::

    /PathB
        /SubPathA1
            FileSubPathA1.txt
            /SubPathA2
                FileSubPathA2.txt

Reference
~~~~~~~~~

pyrocopy.copy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    def copy(src, dst, includeFiles=None, includeDirs=None, excludeFiles=None, excludeDirs=None, level=0,
             followLinks=False, forceOverwrite=False, preserveStats=True, detailedResults=False):

Copies all files and folders from the given source directory to the
destination.

src:string
          

The source path to copy from ###### dst:string The destination path to
copy to ###### includeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files to
include during the operation. Files not matching at least one pattern in
the include list will be skipped. ###### includeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to include during the operation.
Directories not matching at least one pattern in the include list will
be skipped. ###### excludeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files
to exclude during the operation. ###### excludeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to exclude during the operation.
###### level:int The maximum depth to traverse in the source directory
tree.

A value of 0 traverses the entire tree. A positive value traverses N
levels from the top with value 1 being the source root. A negative value
traverses N levels from the bottom of the source tree. ######
followLinks:bool Set to true to traverse through symbolic links. ######
forceOverwrite:bool Set to true to overwrite destination files even if
they are newer. ###### preserveStats:bool Set to True to copy the source
file stats to the destination. ###### detailedResults:bool Set to True
to include additional details in the results containing a list of all
files and directories that were skipped or failed during the operation.
###### return:dict Returns a dictionary containing the following stats:
'filesCopied':int, 'filesFailed':int, 'filesSkipped':int,
'dirsCopied':int, 'dirsFailed':int, 'dirsSkipped':int If detailedResults
is set to True also includes the following: 'filesCopiedList':list,
'filesFailedList':list, 'filesSkippedList':list, 'dirsCopiedList':list,
'dirsFailedList':list, 'dirsSkippedList':list

pyrocopy.mirror
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    def mirror(src, dst, includeFiles=None, includeDirs=None, excludeFiles=None, excludeDirs=None, level=0,
             followLinks=False, forceOverwrite=False, preserveStats=True, detailedResults=False):

Creates an exact copy of the given source to the destination. Copies all
files and directories from source to the destination and removes any
file or directory present in the destination that is not also in the
source.

src:string
          

The source path to copy from ###### dst:string The destination path to
copy to ###### includeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files to
include during the operation. Files not matching at least one pattern in
the include list will be skipped. ###### includeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to include during the operation.
Directories not matching at least one pattern in the include list will
be skipped. ###### excludeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files
to exclude during the operation. ###### excludeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to exclude during the operation.
###### level:int The maximum depth to traverse in the source directory
tree.

A value of 0 traverses the entire tree. A positive value traverses N
levels from the top with value 1 being the source root. A negative value
traverses N levels from the bottom of the source tree. ######
followLinks:bool Set to true to traverse through symbolic links. ######
forceOverwrite:bool Set to true to overwrite destination files even if
they are newer. ###### preserveStats:bool Set to True to copy the source
file stats to the destination. ###### detailedResults:bool Set to True
to include additional details in the results containing a list of all
files and directories that were skipped or failed during the operation.
###### return:dict Returns a dictionary containing the following stats:
'filesCopied':int, 'filesFailed':int, 'filesSkipped':int,
'dirsCopied':int, 'dirsFailed':int, 'dirsSkipped':int If detailedResults
is set to True also includes the following: 'filesCopiedList':list,
'filesFailedList':list, 'filesSkippedList':list, 'dirsCopiedList':list,
'dirsFailedList':list, 'dirsSkippedList':list

pyrocopy.move
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    def move(src, dst, includeFiles=None, includeDirs=None, excludeFiles=None, excludeDirs=None, level=0,
             followLinks=False, forceOverwrite=False, preserveStats=True, detailedResults=False):

Moves all files and folders from the given source directory to the
destination.

src:string
          

The source path to move from ###### dst:string The destination path to
move to ###### includeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files to
include during the operation. Files not matching at least one pattern in
the include list will be skipped. ###### includeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to include during the operation.
Directories not matching at least one pattern in the include list will
be skipped. ###### excludeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files
to exclude during the operation. ###### excludeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to exclude during the operation.
###### level:int The maximum depth to traverse in the source directory
tree.

A value of 0 traverses the entire tree. A positive value traverses N
levels from the top with value 1 being the source root. A negative value
traverses N levels from the bottom of the source tree. ######
followLinks:bool Set to true to traverse through symbolic links. ######
forceOverwrite:bool Set to true to overwrite destination files even if
they are newer. ###### preserveStats:bool Set to True to copy the source
file stats to the destination. ###### detailedResults:bool Set to True
to include additional details in the results containing a list of all
files and directories that were skipped or failed during the operation.
###### return:dict Returns a dictionary containing the following stats:
'filesMoved', 'filesFailed', 'filesSkipped', 'dirsMoved', 'dirsFailed',
'dirsSkipped' If detailedResults is set to True also includes the
following: 'filesMovedList':list, 'filesFailedList':list,
'filesSkippedList':list, 'dirsMovedList':list, 'dirsFailedList':list,
'dirsSkippedList':list

pyrocopy.sync
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    def sync(src, dst, includeFiles=None, includeDirs=None, excludeFiles=None, excludeDirs=None, level=0,
             followLinks=False, forceOverwrite=False, preserveStats=True, detailedResults=False):

Synchronizes all files and folders between the two given paths.

src:string
          

The source path to copy from ###### dst:string The destination path to
copy to ###### includeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files to
include during the operation. Files not matching at least one pattern in
the include list will be skipped. ###### includeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to include during the operation.
Directories not matching at least one pattern in the include list will
be skipped. ###### excludeFiles:array A list of regex patterns of files
to exclude during the operation. ###### excludeDirs:array A list of
regex patterns of directory names to exclude during the operation.
###### level:int The maximum depth to traverse in the source directory
tree.

A value of 0 traverses the entire tree. A positive value traverses N
levels from the top with value 1 being the source root. A negative value
traverses N levels from the bottom of the source tree. ######
followLinks:bool Set to true to traverse through symbolic links. ######
forceOverwrite:bool Set to true to overwrite destination files even if
they are newer. ###### preserveStats:bool Set to True to copy the source
file stats to the destination. ###### detailedResults:bool Set to True
to include additional details in the results containing a list of all
files and directories that were skipped or failed during the operation.
###### return:dict Returns a dictionary containing the following stats:
'filesCopied':int, 'filesFailed':int, 'filesSkipped':int,
'dirsCopied':int, 'dirsFailed':int, 'dirsSkipped':int If detailedResults
is set to True also includes the following: 'filesCopiedList':list,
'filesFailedList':list, 'filesSkippedList':list, 'dirsCopiedList':list,
'dirsFailedList':list, 'dirsSkippedList':list

pyrocopy.mkdir
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    def mkdir(path):

Creats a new directory at the specified path. This function will create
all parent directories that are missing in the given path. #####
path:string The path of the new directory to create. ##### return:dict
Returns True if the directory was successfully created, otherwise False.
