MANIFEST.in
setup.py
getchs/__init__.py
iterminator/__init__.py
iterminator/iterminator.py
iterminator/version.txt
iterminator.egg-info/PKG-INFO
iterminator.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
iterminator.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
iterminator.egg-info/entry_points.txt
iterminator.egg-info/not-zip-safe
iterminator.egg-info/top_level.txt
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/.git
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/.gitignore
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/README.md
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/3024 Day.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/3024 Night.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/AdventureTime.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Afterglow.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/AlienBlood.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Argonaut.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Arthur.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/AtelierSulphurpool.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Atom.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/AtomOneLight.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Batman.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Belafonte Day.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Belafonte Night.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/BirdsOfParadise.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Blazer.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Borland.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Bright Lights.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Broadcast.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Brogrammer.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/C64.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/CLRS.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Chalk.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Chalkboard.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Ciapre.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Cobalt Neon.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Cobalt2.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/CrayonPonyFish.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Dark Pastel.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Darkside.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Desert.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/DimmedMonokai.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/DotGov.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Dracula.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Duotone Dark.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/ENCOM.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Earthsong.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Elemental.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Espresso Libre.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Espresso.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Fideloper.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/FishTank.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Flat.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Flatland.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Floraverse.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/FrontEndDelight.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/FunForrest.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Galaxy.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Github.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Glacier.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Grape.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Grass.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Hardcore.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Harper.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Highway.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Hipster Green.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Homebrew.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Hurtado.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Hybrid.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/IC_Green_PPL.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/IC_Orange_PPL.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/IR_Black.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Jackie Brown.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Japanesque.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Jellybeans.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/JetBrains Darcula.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Kibble.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Later This Evening.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Lavandula.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/LiquidCarbon.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/LiquidCarbonTransparent.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/LiquidCarbonTransparentInverse.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Man Page.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Material.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/MaterialDark.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Mathias.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Medallion.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Misterioso.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Molokai.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/MonaLisa.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Monokai Soda.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/N0tch2k.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Neopolitan.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Neutron.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/NightLion v1.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/NightLion v2.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Novel.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Obsidian.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Ocean.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/OceanicMaterial.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Ollie.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Parasio Dark.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/PaulMillr.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/PencilDark.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/PencilLight.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Piatto Light.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Pnevma.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Pro.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Red Alert.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Red Sands.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Rippedcasts.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Royal.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/SeaShells.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Seafoam Pastel.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Seti.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Shaman.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Slate.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Smyck.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/SoftServer.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Solarized Darcula.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Solarized Dark - Patched.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Solarized Dark Higher Contrast.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Solarized Dark.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Solarized Light.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/SpaceGray Eighties Dull.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/SpaceGray Eighties.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/SpaceGray.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Spacedust.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Spiderman.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Spring.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Square.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Sundried.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Symfonic.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Teerb.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Terminal Basic.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Thayer Bright.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/The Hulk.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Tomorrow Night Blue.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Tomorrow Night Bright.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Tomorrow Night Eighties.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Tomorrow Night.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Tomorrow.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/ToyChest.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Treehouse.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Twilight.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Ubuntu.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Urple.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Vaughn.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/VibrantInk.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/WarmNeon.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Wez.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/WildCherry.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Wombat.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Wryan.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/Zenburn.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/schemes/idleToes.itermcolors
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/genMD.py
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/iterm2terminal.swift
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/iterm2xrdb
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/preview.rb
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/screenshotTable.sh
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/xrdb2hterm
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/xrdb2konsole.py
iterminator/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/tools/xrdb2terminator.py